have you ever wondered how bamboo
flooring is manufactured take five
minutes to listen to our bamboo trailers
video and learn about why we are
passionate about bamboo flooring and the
low carbon footprint it has on our
environment
bamboo is indigenous to China thinkers
completely wild there are over a
thousand species of bamboo and our
flooring is made for Marcel bamboo mersa
bamboo is the largest of the bamboo
species and not on the pandas menu his
bamboo self-regenerating there's no need
to replant new shoots after harvesting
the calms are simply cut the base and
continue to grow in fact some bamboo can
grow as much as a foot or ten
centimetres in 24 hours as the plants
are not removed from the soil there is
no soil erosion the horison price has
had very low impact on the environment
as the cut carbs are removed by hand
therefore and like cutting down regular
trees minimal timber tracks are
necessary in addition the factories are
very close proximity to the plantations
so transport is kept to a minimum there
all bamboo poles are split into two
meter sections called fingers for strand
woven bamboo the fingers are broken down
into these strands bamboo fibers are
much longer than timber fathers giving
bamboo an excellent tensile strength
carbonizing is a process whereby the raw
bamboo fibers are steamed under high
pressure to colonize the water and sugar
in the bamboo in order to create a warm
dark coffee color
new strands are then dried and low heat
kiln to remove all excess water
he straddling stored tool our
climatization before the manufacturing
process may begin next the bamboo
strands are soaked in water based
eco-friendly glue they are dried and in
place in a mold we are compressed under
extreme pressure to form a beam the
molds are in baked in an oven for 24
hours they are then removed from the
mold or allowed to cure for up to six
weeks these beams resemble railway
sleepers however they are three times
denser than tea the beams are then
crossed cut through a multi bladdered
saw turning into flooring planks in one
go blank dimensions vary depending on
what size planks are required the planks
are White's against thought to cloud
tires for another three weeks the raw
planks in girth refinishing prices up to
nine coats of fuller sealant and tuv and
fishing coats applied under continuous
conveyor belt all products used on
eco-friendly and contain no formaldehyde
after each coat the plank is dried using
infrared lights and thence an integrated
better bond for the next application
after the finishing process the planks
go through a fully automated process to
determine what we call the fixing system
essentially this to prepare the planks
the installation there are two methods
of installation tongue and groove with a
planks of glue together for the
preferred with glueless system for the
click system the planks have been sorted
by color tone any defected planks are
then set aside for the imperfections to
be corrected
the planks are then once again color
sorted and packaged in cartons the
cartons are in palletized and secure
ready for shipment to our house in Cape
Town bamboo traders use top quality
floor finishes such as clump intrepid
considered world leaders in their field
we don't mess around with cheap
imitations as it finishes paramount to
preventing the final product from
scratching too easily
and yes we have the certification to
prove it
remember not all bamboo is the same even
though it may appear sir on the surface
do the quaintest ensemble to check for
hardness and don't forget to ask for
certification to ensure that you're
getting the best possible products we've
helped you find the short video
informative and educational please visit
our website or join our facebook fan
page for more information on our bamboo
products and keeping up to date on
what's going on bookmarkers we'll be
back shortly with more informative
videos and installation what to ask and
look for when choosing a bamboo floor
and supplier please thanks for joining
us and until next time keep it green